1) Denver crime data
a) http://data.denvergov.org/dataset/city-and-county-of-denver-crime
b) This dataset includes criminal offenses in the City and County of Denver for the previous five calendar years plus the current year to date. The data is based on the National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS) which includes all victims of person crimes and all crimes within an incident. The data is dynamic, which allows for additions, deletions and/or modifications at any time, resulting in more accurate information in the database. Due to continuous data entry, the number of records in subsequent extractions are subject to change.
c) The dataset includes lat/long coordinates, as well as specific addresses and types of crime committed around Denver. With this, the dataset could be limited to just traffic crimes (including tickets, rear-endings, etc.) and specific addresses for where Denver cops are more likely to issue tickets can be discovered, or what intersections in the city are the most dangerous.
d) A register of crimes mapped to their locations around the city (and their types) could be used to achieve the above goals, as well as measured for pattern analysis. By mapping the crimes of Denver on an interactive, filterable and drilldownable map, critical nuggets of information can be mined that could influence policy and help address other crimes throughout Colorado.
2) Poker hand dataset
a) https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Poker+Hand
b) This dataset records appx 1025010 records of attempted poker hands. Each record is an example of a hand consisting of five playing cards drawn from a standard deck of 52. Each card is described using two attributes (suit and rank), for a total of 10 predictive attributes. There is one Class attribute that describes the "Poker Hand". The order of cards is important, which is why there are 480 possible Royal Flush hands as compared to 4
c) The dataset was originally used as part of a machine learning program to recognize winning poker hands. The dataset can also be used to measure the likelihood of certain poker hands success over others (for example; although a flush is probalisticaly more likely to occur than a full-house, a full-house is easier to recognize and aim for in five card stud).
d) A measurement of poker-hands likelihood is always fun to dig through. Casino's are curious about this information, as it can be sued to influence their games. Mathematicians looking for patterns can hopefully identify critical features of poker hand outcomes.


(a)  Write a python program that takes one command line argument i (i ∈ [1, 10]) and computes the following values for the i-th attribute of the dataset: N (number of objects), min, max, mean, standard deviation, Q1, median, Q3, IQR. Output all the values in a single line, separated by comma.
(b)  Generate a scatter plot using the 4th and 5th attributes. You can use any plotting tool, such as excel, matlab, gnuplot, R, python, etc. 
Name your python code as LastName_FirstName_HW1.py and your scatter plot as LastName_FirstName_HW1.pdf. Please attach the .py program file and the .pdf plot separately in the attachments section (Don't zip the files). You can ignore the text box.
